Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a crime, drama, history
film from 2008, that is based on a true story,
titled 21.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Ben, an MIT mathematics major, is accepted
into Harvard, but cannot afford the $300,000
tuition.
He applies for a scholarship that would cover
the entire cost, but is informed that only
1 of the 76 applicants will get it.
Despite having high grades and test scores,
he faces fierce competition.
He needs to write an essay and is told by
the director that the scholarship will only
go to whichever student dazzles him.
Ben works at a men's clothing store with his
best friend Miles and is promoted to assistant
manager which makes $8 an hour.
He tells Miles about the essay and that he
has no idea what to write about, because he
hasn't done anything remarkable.
Ben is frustrated because even though he has
crushed exams, taken extracurriculars and
given up everything, the one thing stopping
him from going to Harvard is money.
They meet up at a bar with Cam to celebrate
Ben's birthday.
The 3 of them are trying to win a science
competition by building a self-driving car.
Back at MIT, a professor, Micky Rosa is giving
a lecture on nonlinear equations.
He asks the class to explain Newton's method.
Ben mentions that Newton actually stole the
method from Joseph Raphson, who published
the same method 50 years earlier.
The professor is impressed and gives him a
chance for extra credit so he challenges Ben
with the Monty Hall problem, which he solves
successfully.
As class ends the professor checks Ben's most
recent test result to see 97%.
Ben, Miles and Cam are at a gym, playing basketball.
He notices a girl he likes- Jill.
She waves and he waves back, but turns out
she's waving at someone behind him.
Later that day as Ben is studying a fellow
student comes up and asks to follow him, he's
a bit confused, but does so.
He's brought to a room that has some students
sitting at a blackjack table and professor
Rosa standing at a blackboard.
He tells Ben to call him Micky and invites
him to join the MIT Blackjack Team.
Ben is introduced to the team consisting of
Kianna, Fisher, Choi and Jill.
They explain that blackjack is beatable and
that they go to Las Vegas every weekend and
holiday and that a spot on their team has
opened up, because a previous member got a
job at google.
Ben is hesitant because he’s afraid to step
out of his comfort zone.
Jill says: “C’mon Ben, it'll be fun!”.
They go back and forth, Ben coming up with
excuses as to why he can't do it, and Micky
trying to convince him, but Ben ultimately
declines.
The next day Jills shows up at his job and
says she's looking for a tie.
Ben tries to help her pick one, but she's
actually there to try to convince him further,
saying that he should experience more things
in life.
Ben finally shows up at the blackjack club
and starts learning the system.
High cards have a value of -1, neutral cards
have no value and low cards are +1.
He practices counting cards and memorizes
the words that the team has assigned to each
high count.
Later, at a bar they explain the roles of
every member of the team.
Kianna, Choi and Jill are the spotters, they
sit at various blackjack tables only betting
the table minimum and keeping count.
When one of the tables reach a “hot” count
the player has an edge over the dealer so
they signal Ben or Fisher who are the big
players, who then stumble over to the table
like some drunk rich kid and bet big.
When the deck cools down, the big player leaves
the table.
Ben shows up to a dodgy alleyway for a trial
run.
He goes inside an underground casino where
his spotters are already sitting at tables.
Choi signals him that the deck is hot and
Ben sits down at the table.
Choi then uses the word “magazine” in
a sentence to inform Ben that the count is
+17 and he starts making big bets.
He's winning a lot and is exhilarated, smiling
constantly, when suddenly a bag is thrown
over his head and he's dragged into a back
room.
A deep voice keeps asking him: “what's the
count”.
He acts clueless but eventually gives in and
tells them it's +18.
Turns out this was a test whether he can keep
the count under pressure and is officially
welcomed to the team.
The next day they fly to Las Vegas.
They enter a hotel suite where Micky gives
each member a new identity and a disguise.
He further instructs Ben to act like they
dont know eachother and always order water,
tonic and lime and appear a little drunk.
At the Red Rock Casino, Kianna signals Ben.
He looks to the right and sees Fisher and
Choi at the next table.
He sits down and exchanges $10000 for chips
and after taking a sip of her drink, Kianna
exclaims “Too sweet”, which indicates
that the count is +16.
Ben doubles down on eights on his first hand,
the dealer goes over 21 and Ben wins, profiting
$4000 already.
On the next hand he gets a blackjack and wins
another $3000.
He goes on playing at the casino on different
tables, stacking chips along the way.
Seeing Ben winning so much, Fisher stares
in disbelief.
Come morning, Choi signals it's time to leave
and they head out.
The next day Ben is woken up by Jill, who
throws him his cut.
She tells him he did good- came in quick off
the count, wasn't afraid to play big, got
out when he was supposed to and made more
money than Fisher.
He tells her that he was pretty nervous at
first, but after a while it felt easy.
They are called for a team meeting.
Fisher shows up drunk.
Micky is pissed, because on 3 occasions, Fisher
played into a cold deck even when spotters
let him know that.
Micky tells Ben he did good and to keep it
up.
Fisher utters: “Beginners luck”, and denies
that he played wrong, but Micky puts him in
his place.
Ben is back at the dorm and stashes his cut
from the weekend- $16700 in the ceiling tiles.
Suddenly Miles and Cam walk in and he pretends
he's just jumping on the bed.
Miles asks where he was this weekend and says
he called like 15 times.
Ben makes up a lie about helping a cousin
move and says that he forgot his cell phone.
All 3 decide to go to a bar for some drinks.
Ben sees Jill at the counter and offers to
buy her a beer.
His 2 friends are stunned and keep staring
at them.
He goes to tell them to stop acting weird
to not freak her out, but they say that they
are probably more freaked out than she is.
Ben and Jill are on a train.
He asks her whether she came into the store
to ask him to join the team because Micky
asked her to.
She says that he's the smartest guy she knows
and that's why he's on the team and that's
why she went to the store.
He tries to kiss her but she pulls back.
He is embarrassed and starts apologizing,
but she tells him to not worry about it and
that she just doesn't want to complicate things
because they work together.
She says it's her stop so she gets off the
train.
Over the coming weekends, the team is flown
to Las Vegas Valley and Ben comes to enjoy
his luxurious life as a high roller, but there's
still 1 thing he can't get off his mind.
Every trip he makes more money than in 5 years
at his old job.
In Boston he is just Ben Capmpell, but in
Vegas he can be whoever he wants to be.
It was too good to be true and felt like it
was never going to end.
The head of security, Cole Williams, has been
monitoring the team and begins to focus on
Ben, suspecting that he may be counting cards.
Turns out he is also a card counter, but prefers
to be on the other side of the hustle.
For the first time, life was easy for Ben,
nothing cost too much and nothing was out
of reach.
College parties with frat dudes were upgraded
to something more interesting.
Fisher becomes extremely jealous of Ben's
success and one day, while drunk, sits down
at Ben's table and starts dropping hints that
they know each other.
Meanwhile Williams is watching them on tape
and notices that Kianna only bets table minimum
and that Ben only appears after she gives
him a signal.
He goes to confront them, but Fisher has caused
a commotion and they leave before Williams
can get to them.
At a bar, Micky removes Fisher from the team.
He informs the rest that the casino is changing
their chips in 24 hours, which means that
they need to exchange them for cash, which
they can't do because of Fisher's antics.
Ben suggests they use the dancers to exchange
the chips for them.
Micky calls him a genius.
Later that day Jill invites Ben to her suite
and they have a romantic night and make love.
Ben's new secret life causes him to neglect
his role in the science competition, which
estranges him from his friends.
He shows up late to a meeting with them and
gives them the wrong part for their project.
They are disappointed and tell him that he
isn't as committed to the project as they
are and decide to keep going without him.
During the next trip to Las Vegas, he is emotionally
distracted.
He gets an unlucky outcome on a big hand.
He lets his emotions get the better of him
and fails to walk away from the table when
signaled by Kianna.
Jill steps in and tries to get him out, but
fails.
He ends up losing an extra $200,000.
Micky is furious and even when Ben apologizes,
saying that this is his first mistake and
others try to back him up, Micky leaves the
team and says that Ben will have to pay the
$200,000 he lost one way or another.
Ben and the remaining team decide that they
will continue to play blackjack without Micky
who took a 50% cut, reasoning that they don't
even need him.
Jill is against the idea, reminding Ben that
he only did this to pay for Harvard, but even
though he had made enough money, he now wants
to keep going.
They go back to the tables and are winning,
but Micky is lurking in the shadows and tips
off security.
Williams takes Ben to a backroom and beats
him up while explaining that all casinos will
soon have face recognition software so his
days were numbered anyway.
Ben is also told that Williams and Micky go
way back.
He used to chase and beat him up too, which
is why Micky doesn't play himself anymore.
Ben goes back to MIT and reads a letter saying
that he is ineligible for graduation because
one of his courses, taught by an associate
of Micky's, is marked as incomplete.
He goes inside and finds his dorm room trashed.
The money he's been stashing away is missing.
He has lost everything.
He visits Jill and says he doesn't want to
lose her too, and apologizes for his actions
back in Vegas.
Miles and Can manage to win the robotics competition
even without Ben, who is there watching.
He apologizes to Miles for letting him down
and explains everything he's been up to and
they make up.
Ben goes to see Micky and persuades him to
make a final trip to Vegas before the casinos
install biometric software, but this time
they will all use disguises and Micky will
be the second big player to make a big return.
They're in a casino, making big bets, stacking
chips and enjoying themselves.
They manage to profit $640,000, before Williams
shows up.
Jill signals them and they scramble, throwing
chips in a bag and taking off.
A chase ensues.
They run around slot machines and enter the
staff area, where Micky convinces Ben to throw
him the chips and says they should separate.
Micky manages to get out and hops into a limo.
He's ecstatic, thinking he got away with all
of the money, but as he opens the bag, he
realizes that the chips are fake.
Ben switched the real chips with fake ones
while they were running.
Turns out that Williams has always held a
grudge against Micky, because the last time
he saw him he got away with massive gains.
So he made a deal with Ben to lure Micky back
to Vegas to catch him.
In turn Ben would be allowed to keep whatever
they make that day, but when Ben and Jill
exit the casino Williams walks up and explains
that he needs the money for retirement, and
Ben being as intelligent as he is will figure
out a way to succeed, so he takes the bag
at gunpoint.
The limo Micky got in was set up by Williams
and he is brought to the same room where Ben
was held.
Turns out that Ben's long time friends are
also pretty good at card counting and the
6 person team makes a lot of money despite
Williams' robbery.
As Ben is recounting this story to the scholarship
director, he looks pretty damn dazzled.
The End.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.